David Luke Richardson
Writing 140
JJ Strong
January 28, 2006
Assignment 1
Los Angeles: Oasis of the Dreamer
    It takes a lot to make a man trek across the American Heartland.  It takes more than just opportunities to convince a man to cross the Rocky Mountains.  It takes a dream.  Ever since Los Angeles became part of the United States it has boasted financial freedom and independence to whoever would make the journey.  Advertisements made claims that it was a place where one could make his fortune without interference from the government.  It was a sort of Mecca for those who had immigrated to the United States hoping to find new opportunities that had already run out on the east coast.  The promise of wealth and freedom lured many toward this desert town.
    Advertisements today still boast of the opportunities and livelihood one might find in Los Angeles.  In the purest form, every advertisement is attempting to offer the American Dream itself to the consumer. Whether it be the assurance that a new coffee table will provide the culture missing from one’s loft or that a new alarm system will provide families with the security needed to be happy, ads are selling the American Dream in some form or another.  However, the American Dream can not be clearly constrained to a single definition.  It is not a diamond to be examined under a microscope but rather a far away oasis among unfamiliar terrain covered in a thick haze.  If one squints toward this oasis for long enough one can at least deduce that material prosperity is a necessary element in making this dream a reality.  There is certainly much more to the American Dream than wealth, but just as an oasis is nothing without fresh water the other elements of the American Dream are dependant on financial stability.  
One can achieve financial independence and not necessarily have realized the American Dream, but one can not realize the American Dream without some sense of material prosperity beyond what is immediately necessary.  This is clearly backed up in an advertisement for Tower Records frequently found in the Los Angeles Times.  In this ad several males are depicted in expensive suits sitting around a table at a fancy restaurant.  No food can be seen, so this is a visit of leisure rather than one of physiological needs.  The table is adorned only with wine bottles and near empty glasses.  If the ad is treated as an advertisement for the American Dream itself, the ad concludes that the American Dream is a dream of excess.  It is not only about providing for what one needs but also one’s desires.
    This is not a dream available to all, however.  Due to the large class gaps existing in Los Angeles, only some are even given the opportunity to strive toward this dream.  This expansive crevice between the lower class and the target audience of these ads is so present in this city that it diffuses into the products of the city’s culture.  Advertisements for the Wilshire Highrise display an attractive, young female in a dress sipping a martini while enjoying the view from her condominium.  The ad beckons for cultured citizens who enjoy martinis to pre-qualify for these half-million dollar lofts.  On closer inspection she appears to actually be scoffing at the thousands of headlights blurred together on the streets below.  It is clearly late, late enough for this woman to return to her place of residence.  These cars are not speeding off to night clubs and movie premiers.  They are transporting the night shift to work.  While many cities are known for their beautiful skylines, only Los Angeles is known for its glowing streets from the glare of headlights at all hours of the night.  In effect, hundreds of people contributed to the image used in this ad, as it would not be the same at all if all the factories were closed and all the streets vacant.  Yet, the only person of importance is the woman in the dress.  The ad itself recognizes that this lower class of late night commuters is necessary for the highrise’s breathtaking view.  It is also a very proportional representation of the city’s distribution of wealth: For every thousand minimum wage employees barely able to make ends meet there is one elite able to realize the city’s dream.
    Of course, it is certainly possible that this woman once worked these late nights herself.  She could have simply been more dedicated than the older men and women who worked the graveyard shift for a much greater portion of their lives than her.  However, an ad for the Little Tokyo Lofts presents a concept that makes this very unlikely.  This ad states that “(a)fter years of telling people you live in L.A., isn’t it time you actually lived in L.A.?”  It tells its audience that an address is an important judgment of character.  Just like a nice suit is necessary to make a good impression at a job interview, a well-known loft listed on a résumé is important to show class.  This self-perpetuating cycle requires a prosperous lifestyle before one can afford it.  This ad also separates Los Angeles into two distinct zones: the core of Los Angeles and the surrounding area that it implies is not actually Los Angeles.  The American Dream in Los Angeles is only available to those who actually live in the heart of Los Angeles and not the more affordable properties in the hinterlands.
    Those that live in the hinterlands may scan the advertisements with envy, but they know that the ads are not meant for their eyes anyway.  The Tokyo Lofts ad mentions starting prices in the $300,000 range and the Wilshire Highrise’s ad boasts an American Dream starting in the high $400,000s.  There are much more implicit signs that these ads are not targeted at anyone below this elite status as well.  Both of these ads contain the term “pre-qualify.”  To pre-qualify one must have a steady source of documented income and a credit report clean of delinquencies.  The working class is more commonly paid based on commission, under the table, or in tips than the upper class.  Therefore one must not only have the necessary funds but also be in the spectrum of suitable occupations to be approved.  Additionally, an American Express advertisement often seen in LA Weekly displays an older woman in a pink and white collared shirt with a dachshund in a matching outfit.  Her own clothing represents what could be considered necessary but the puppy’s attire is purely frivolous spending.  This ad is targeted at only those who can afford this sort of lifestyle.  Additionally, the ad can only be responded to online, sending a definite message:  If you do not have the internet in your household, you will not be approved for this card.  Advertisements in Los Angeles for the American Dream are excluding the hardest working of its inhabitants.
    Los Angeles is perceived as a place where hard work and talent can really pay off.  The film industry in Hollywood is one of the few industries where an employee, such as an actor, can actually make much more money than the film company they are working for.  Big name actors are paid millions to star in movies with no commercial success quite frequently.  In general, when someone works for a company and earns a dollar it is only because they provide the company with profit greater than a dollar.  This is even truer in Los Angeles due of the high percentage of employees working under the table for less than minimum wage.  So while one may think that if he pays his dues to society and works hard enough for long enough he can transcend the class gap, all he is actually doing is broadening the class gap.  Just as the lower class is supporting the image of the Los Angeles skyline with the blurred headlights, the lower class is also providing the income for the classes above them.  The higher he climbs up the class ladder, the further away the top becomes.  
To see evidence of this in advertisements one must look at what is not displayed.  No ghettos are shown in any ad here.  The ads contain only attractive white men and women.  No one is seen doing anything that can even be construed as work.  No evidence of life is displayed in the immaculate lofts.  The people portrayed in these acts – the same ones who have realized the Dream in Los Angeles – did not earn their status.  Their lifestyle is dependant upon those who drive the cars whose blurred headlights make the streaks where vacant streets should be.  It seems that to obtain the American Dream in this city one must already have all the amenities that are the result of having obtained the dream already.  Although very few may somehow transcend the class gap, the severe economical imbalances between classes and cyclical nature of the American Dream in Los Angeles makes it inherently flawed and unachievable on any wide scale. 
    The American Dream can be thought of as an oasis in the distance.  Everyone has some perception or another of it, seeing the same dream from a different angle and with a different wind.  Los Angeles, too, can be thought of as an oasis surrounded by the desert.  Everyone comes with the dream of making a name of themselves and getting a new chance.  Unfortunately for America, some oases are really just mirages.
Works Cited.
"1100 Wilshire." Advertisement. Los Angles Times. 
"IN:LA by American Express." Advertisement. LA Weekly 23 Dec. 2005: 19. 
"Little Tokyo Lofts." Advertisement. Los Angeles Times. 
"Tower Records." Advertisement. Los Angeles Times. 
David Luke Richardson
Writing 140
JJ Strong
February 15, 2006
Assignment 2
A Slice of Bohemia
Its majestic skyline is emblematic to the American way of life.  Its expanding and encompassing design has redesigned the urban city.  Its profitability has spawned the modern business corporation.  Los Angeles ushered in a new era of society and culture.  Yet there exists an encampment with a nomadic feeling along the shoreline.  A bohemian countercultural society contained within six city blocks centralized at Third Street in the bay city of Santa Monica screams of a simpler time: A time when streets were built for carts not cars and business was a matter of acquaintanceship.  The Third Street Promenade is a European village in a post-European world.  This beautiful blending of art and business could easily be a model for the future of American commerce.
    It seems fitting that one can take in the salty ocean air while enjoying the landscaped dinosaur fountains that serve as centerpieces to streets void of automobiles.  With ease one can locate where the deep sky blue and the deep ocean blue become one in the same.  Ornate hexagonal tiles adorn the streets, which are dissected into two lanes by Victorian greenhouses and elaborate pools of water.   The sidewalks are spotted with vendor’s hawking their wares from eloquent carts.  Crowds frequently gather around singers in outlandish attire and dancers recreating classical routines from far away places – far away places where bazaars like the Third Street Promenade are commonplace.  
However, in Los Angeles such an encampment is anything but common.  The brilliance behind the concept, and the reason why it fits in this city, is because it is artful and profitable.  Prior to being a promenade, Third Street was a series of dilapidated storefronts and vacant parking structures.  After its advent taxable sales from the entire city increased by 440% all derived from an otherwise ordinary stretch of ghetto (Brinsley).  Santa Monica’s Third Street Promenade would seem to be the perfect balance between culture and capitalism, where a man can not only turn a huge profit but also build lasting memories and traditions, all on those six street blocks defended from the rapidly growing urbanization that surrounds them.  The Promenade, one of the most popular shopping districts in Los Angeles County, should, much like the skyline, be emblematic to the American way of life.  It should not only shape the American Dream, but due to its transformation of decay into something of financial and cultural significance, be a model and method one can use to achieve the American Dream, as well.
The American Dream is what lured many travelers from their simple east coast lifestyles to the frontier.  The thought of owning a farm in sunny southern California, relaxing and watching the oranges grow into golden coins in a place where the opera, the theatre and the art exhibition are all inexpensive and accessible created this urge to pack up and leave their old lives behind them.  Their old lives never quenched their thirst for wealth and always left them desiring a more cultured social life.  This balance between wealth, education and cultivation of the mind is in itself an American Dream and the dream of many who trekked westward to California.  This dream cannot be denied within the Third Street Promenade – provided one has a permit for such a dream.
While the Promenade masquerades as a marketplace where entertainers show off their skills in order to make an honest dollar, it is in fact simply bureaucratic regulations put into effect to create such a spontaneous atmosphere.  The entertainers audition for their permits and are allotted certain timeslots in which to perform their act.  This is not the sort bazaar that attracts talent and breathes culture, but rather a commercial district with unusual employees.  A timecard toting juggler is no more art than a waitress singing happy birthday at a colorful family-themed restaurant.  The Third Street Promenade tries so hard to present this idea of being a center of culture, attracting and demanding the skills of talented performers, but this presentation is only superficial.  Call it what it is: A business model for attracting customers solely for the purpose of profiting.
The history of these streets echoes this strictly corporate approach to the Promenade as well.  In the 1960’s it was converted into an open air shopping mall.  This was only successful in leaving behind vacant and useless storefronts and parking structures that had never reached capacity.  It was an attempt to get more profit out of the land, plain and simple.  The conversion in the mid 1980’s was a similar attempt.  The idea at the time was that if one would just pave an inch of tile over the asphalt and slap a coat of paint on the walls and it would be reborn as this great Arcadia within the city.  Ironically, what it became was a superficial re-creation of the places many immigrants left behind in search of the American Dream, such as Old Chicago and Greenwich Village.  These immigrants left these places in search of a land that offered them better opportunities for both material and social prosperity.  In an effort to deliver this, the land they arrived in now offers a glimpse at the life they, or more precisely their grandparents, left behind to pursue the American Dream – one of culture and of profit.
So long as the Promenade offered an opportunity for material growth, it could still be considered a valuable asset in attaining the American Dream here in Los Angeles.  While a bazaar would be populated by local tradesmen trading local goods, the Promenade is instead populated almost exclusively with large corporations such as Barnes and Noble and American Eagle Outfitters.  This is primarily due to the increasingly expensive cost of renting within the Promenade.  The rent per square foot quintupled between 1989 and 1999, forcing the “Ma and Pa” businesses out to make room for the Starbucks Hear Music Coffeehouse and the Apple Store (Brinsley).  Starbucks, Apple and American Eagle are turning big profits from this glamorized mall, but those profiting most from these corporations are those who already have material prosperity beyond what most citizens can even imagine.  This practice only contributes to creating a more exclusive American Dream, thus deforming the concept into a dream only available to few.
Perhaps the selective dream is a more attractive one to those who have already found material prosperity as it seems something they are willing to defend.  Santa Monica’s coastline may be adorned with antique cannons from battles that were never fought in its harbor, but there is a very real battle occurring in the areas surrounding the Promenade on a daily basis.  Cement barriers separate the streets of Santa Monica from the pedestrian zone of the Promenade.  Brochures released to encourage tourism state that the Promenade can be entered at no cost, raising the question: When does one ever have to pay a fee to walk down a certain street?  Do not think of those cement slabs as blockades, but rather consider them revolving doors to an indoor mall and more importantly – private property.  Since everyone has been allowed to enter without paying a fee to the mall’s generous administration, anyone can be asked to leave without having his or her fare refunded.  This idea is known as turning the American city “outside in.”  This localizes public activity to select regions, allowing the surrounding streets to serve simply as “sewers” and “waste receptacles” for a society that is too civilized to confront its problems (Davis 226).  This is all but a clever deterrent to minimize the homeless representation in Santa Monica.  
An even less subtle deterrent would be the ordinance that came into effect in January of 2003 preventing any charitable organization from providing food to the homeless unless they meet all the standards that would be required of restaurants operating to turn a profit.  These standards are extremely difficult to meet when the organization is not charging its “customers” for their meals.  The requirement for sinks in any facility that serves food puts the majority of soup kitchens, which were operating out of volunteer’s personal vehicles, out cold.  James Lafferty, Executive Director of the National Lawyer’s Guild, said that such standards would be impossible to follow for organizations that do not make a profit (Allardice).  All of this is merely an attempt to keep the homeless out of sight for the shoppers at the Third Street Promenade.  Not only is there bureaucracy in place to create the image of spontaneous street carts and performers drawn in by the cultural aspects of the Promenade, but it gets worse.  There is actually additional bureaucracy that restricts entry the many homeless who are actually drawn toward this bizarre bazaar.  
Most pedestrians are easily tricked by this contrast, believing that the man who is attempting to make money playing a song on his electric keyboard is much more deserving of their dollar than the lazy bum who did not think to bring his electric instruments.  Stop and watch a performer for a while, wait for a wave of people to come and go.  One will most certainly see that many who donate do not watch the man’s performance nor do they stay around after dropping their dollar in his hat.  They do it out of pity; so they can feel better about themselves.  They easily play along with the bohemian fantasy that the homeless and the performers are one in the same.
At a glance it might be easy to fall prey to the illusion of Santa Monica’s Third Street Promenade.  The offers of wealth and culture could seem more than just painted buildings and hardwood flooring inside the Gap, but a closer inspection yields their hollowness.  Hollow, too, is that promise made by the salty ocean air that the Pacific is within reach.  One must leave the fantasy of the Promenade and cross the busy Ocean Avenue, buzzing with the smells, sounds and sights of reality, before the ocean is within reach.  The Promenade, outside of those concrete barriers, is nothing but a corporation intent on making the most profit possible from given land regardless of what it displaces, whether that is small businesses, the homeless or dreams.  This sacrifice of true culture in exchange for wealth further deforms the American Dream in Los Angeles as one that cannot be shared but instead must be coddled.  The Promenade may appear to be a reincarnation of the old marketplaces and bazaars many left behind to travel to Los Angeles, but beneath the inch of paved tile lies the asphalt headstone to a dream Los Angeles has forever made obsolete.










Works Cited.
Allardice, James. "City Ban On Public Feeding Is Challenged." Santa Monica Mirror Jan. 2003.
Brinsley, John. "MALL BRINGS AN ECONOMIC BOOST, BUT SOME PROBLEMS."

LA Business Journal Aug. 1999. 

Davis, Mike. City of Quartz. New York: Vintage Books, 1992. 

David Luke Richardson
Writing 140
JJ Strong
March 6, 2006
Assignment 3

Peace Without a Piece

    Guns are powerful tools.  They allow even the weakest man to defend his family and honor.  They provide a permanent solution to many problems in life.  John Singleton introduces this idea early on in his film, Boyz ‘N the Hood, through young Doughboy’s dialogue with his friends after his brother’s football is stolen by some teenagers.  Doughboy expresses deep hatred for these hoodlums and wishes he could kill them.  However, he learns the hard way that he is not physically strong enough to commit such an act, demonstrated by his inability to reclaim his brother’s property, implying that he wishes he had a means for killing them.  The easiest means for this would be the potent gun.  While Tre Styles tries to offer up a peaceful solution, offering his football to Ricky, Doughboy disintegrates this resolution by revealing the football was a gift from Ricky’s father – probably the only gift Ricky, raised by his single mother, ever received from him.  Enduring this situation suddenly seems much more unfair to the audience of this film.   The image of Doughboy heroically firing a “piece” in an effort to reclaim his brother’s property and teach some older kids a lesson starts to creep into the filmgoer’s imagination.  Before the audience can entertain this thought further, a sympathetic member of the hoodlum pack spirals the ball toward Ricky.  Guns provide a seemingly permanent solution to many problems in life.  However, most of those problems are only temporary ones.  Anti-violent messages such as this are ingrained in every aspect of the film, showing that violence is never a proper means of solving problems, whether it be getting back your stolen football or avenging a lost brother. 
    Many falsely criticize that the film still helps to perpetuate violence by citing the violent incidents that were reported at 25 of the 800 theatres where the film opened (‘Boyz’ Film Opens to Violence).  This accusation is ludicrous, seeing as the shootings all occurred prior to or as the film started.  No offensive or violent images appear as the film opens, but rather a harrowing fact hangs lifelessly on the screen: One out of every twenty-one Black American males will be murdered in their lifetime.  By displaying the harsh reality of life as a Black American, an anti-violent tone is set for the film.  To further discourage violence and upheaval, Singleton does not cast any of the characters in specific gangs and sparingly uses gang references at all.  In a press conference in response to the shootings, Singleton said that a segment of the population wants shootings like this to occur and that he will not turn his back on his brothers (‘Boyz’ Film Opens to Violence).  This sage-like advice is very similar to many of the sermons Furious Styles launches into throughout the film.
    Just as the opening sequence clearly sets the tone of an anti-violent message, the character of Furious Styles carries this message through out the movie.  Furious Styles, Tre’s father and model of masculinity, does not immediately stand out from the typical Black American portrayed in film (Massood).  He became a father at a young age, there is no indication he received any higher education and he is unmarried.  Yet it becomes more and more apparent as the film progresses that while Furious was given the same circumstances common to many Black Americans in this setting, he was able to rise above his circumstances and attain a level of enlightenment that gives him a deeper insight into the true problem haunting his people.  Tre and his friends cannot help but respect Furious for this enlightenment.  Furious is continually described as deep and addressed by Ricky as a preacher.  In many ways, that is just what Furious Styles is: a preacher.
    A preacher not only speaks of good news and of salvation, but also of an invisible evil and of temptation.  Furious speaks of many methods of salvation; property ownership, considerate thought and education, just to name a few.  He also speaks of an outside force that is working to tempt his son and neighbors.  This external force drives the land value into the ground by placing liquor stores and gun shops on every corner and supplying crack cocaine to the country.  Ultimately, Furious preaches that this invisible evil wants those in the hood to kill each other, preventing their ability to reproduce themselves.  Of course, a preacher does not call for a direct offense against the devil, but rather that his followers would transform their minds as not be effected by the manipulation techniques the devil employs.  Furious, much in the same manner, calls for Blacks to maintain control of their property and to consider their actions carefully and think about their future rather than naively “smoking” the first brother who makes a threat toward them.  Through these transformations, Furious presents a clear way to weaken the stranglehold on the hood held by this powerful corporate machine, which strives to ensure Blacks continue to murder Blacks.
    Singleton and many of the characters in the film do realize that it is not simply Blacks murdering Blacks, but friends murdering friends.  Doughboy seeks his brother’s killers all night, and finally the crew decides to stop for a meal.  The burger joint they pull into already has a few customers with a similar idea.  Singleton focuses briefly on these customers, Ricky’s killers, and presents them much in the same light as all the other characters are: as likable misfits and consequences of their surroundings.  There is no reason why these characters could not be friends had they met on slightly different circumstances.
    Had other circumstances been slightly different, these characters fates could be drastically different as well.  Had the two sets of hooligans not bumped into each other at Crenshaw, the argument between the groups would not have ensued.  Had Ricky turned the other cheek rather than resulting to foul name calling so quickly, Doughboy would have never had the opportunity to flash his gun, which would’ve never inspired Ricky’s killer from discharging an automatic weapon into the air.  This built up frustration between these two groups of very similar teens eventually ends in the death of almost all present for this encounter.  Of course, it did not have to be this way.  Both sides continued to live by the gun and search for the easiest way to take control in situations of conflict.  At any point in this encounter, if anyone had followed Furious’ advice to think about his future and to avoid the temptation to do what the outside forces want, this whole situation could have been prevented.  
    However, no one followed the advice offered by Furious.  The result is portrayed violently on screen, both as Ricky’s body is impacted in agonizing slow motion and as his killers are gunned down by Doughboy’s drive-by.  As Ricky is shot, an emotional reaction is demanded of the audience.  Ricky is torn from them before their eyes.  The second shooting is not all that different, though.  As Doughboy steps out of the car to fire a few more shells in each body, a very similar emotional reaction is required of the audience again.  As Doughboy demands his brother’s killer turns over the man responds with a strange plea.  He insists that he did not pull the trigger.  Doughboy knows this is a lie, yet a strange look comes across his face.  From this look the audience realizes that Doughboy was just ripped from them just as Ricky was, and not simply because Doughboy is now ill fated.  Ricky’s killer and his killer have suddenly become enlightened and realized what Furious has been preaching all along:  They are simply playing their roles as puppets to a society that wants them dead.  Doughboy’s face does not express satisfaction, achievement or glory, but rather emptiness and guilt.  He suddenly realizes why Tre asked him to pull the car over, and he wishes he had gotten out too.
    Many of the solutions Furious preached are as simple as pulling the car over and walking home, the path Tre finally decided upon.  His decision legitimizes himself as a man and as a model.  It is for that reason that Tre has no words for his father upon returning home, still covered in his friend’s blood.  He has faced one of the most troubling of events and been able to rise above his emotions and think, just as Furious always stressed.  On top of that he has proven that he made the decision for himself, not for his father.  He is an adult, he knows what he did and he does not need to explain his guiltless actions to anyone.  The call of the movie is to challenge each and every viewer to do the same: To take the message preached by Furious and make it your own.  Singleton starts the movie with a harrowing fact about the realities of Black American’s and ends the film with a final plea to his audience in the same fashion: Increase the Peace.  This message of anti-violence through any means necessary is strongly demonstrated throughout every facet of the film, be it the respect Furious demands and the message he preaches or the portrayal of the antagonists as congruent with the protagonists.  For every violent image displayed on the screen, the filmgoer is bombarded with messages from various angles of the cost of such violence.  This barrage is so strong it would be improbably that any patron who could legally screen the film could leave with a sense that the violence was a desirable escape or solution to any of the numerous conflicts shown throughout the film.  This film undoubtedly has and will continue to ‘Increase the Peace.’

Works Cited.
Massood, Paula J.  “From Homeboy to Baby Boy: Masculinity and Violence in the Films of John
Singleton.
Harris, Scott, and Jim Herron Zamora. "'Boyz' Film Opens to Violence." Los Angeles Times 
14 July 1991: 3.
David Luke Richardson
Writing 140
JJ Strong
April 19, 2006
Assignment 5
City of Angels and Devils
    No single event has watermarked the image of Los Angeles in the American consciousness quite like the Los Angeles Riots of 1992.  Like the faded face of Jefferson on the twenty dollar bill, one will not merely notice the way the riots transformed the City of Angels by happenstance.  Yet, if the city is examined with deliberate intent it is difficult to miss:  gated communities around every corner, fortress-like structures housing the middle class and the relentless flight to distance oneself from the city one’s life revolves around.  The riots are not the sole catalyst of this heightened security, but more precisely, the causes of the riots were the catalysts.  The riots are, however, the best defined face of the alienation that has created in the citizens of Los Angeles an “us or them” mentality.  This separatist mentality not only shapes Los Angeles, but it actually defines it through race relations on a socio-geographical level.
    Were the riots simply a natural disaster, the reaction of a society would not be a proper gauge of the mentality of its citizens.  A natural disaster gives a window of the mentality a city has in a state of emergency, but a self-inflicted disaster is able to more holistically define the mentality that both caused and reacted to the disaster.  In this environmentalist era, natural disasters are precisely defined as having causes that are in no way dependant upon human-environment interaction.  The riots are often described as inevitable, but there is almost as frequently an unspoken clause tagged to such a description: given the way races were alienated.  The riots came about as a result of straws of injustice, such as the beating of motorist Rodney King, burdening the black community. The April 29th acquittal, not simply the prodigal back-breaking straw, sparked an inferno of burning straw that was long overdue for a wildfire.  Since the riots are clearly the result of citizens’ mentalities, the reactionary thoughts and dialogues can accurately define the characteristics of a city as a whole.  The most central of these characteristics is the feeling of alienation experienced.
    One of the most comprehensive collections of dialogue from the aftermath of the riots came about in the form of “documentary theatre” researched and assembled by actress Anna Deavere Smith.  She is improperly given credit for writing Twilight: Los Angeles, 1992, although she did not write a single line of dialogue.  Every word is taken from interviews she conducted with persons of interest or disinterest in the wake of the 1992 riots.  Those interviewed range from people directly involved within the riots, including a police officer indicted for the beating, to those involved only by proximity, such as an anonymous USC student relatively safe in her sorority house.  While documentary is always subject to the documenter’s notions and message, it is relatively safe to assume Smith tried to stay as true to the voices she heard as possible.  Her message, as stated in the introduction of the play, is a call to the community to resolve the problems that created the tensions that allowed the riots to come to fruition (Smith XXIV).  Those closest to the riot, the community she is speaking of, would surely see through an overtly dramatized sampling of hatred still harbored between races, and that community would not be drawn to motion if Smith had censored the work to tame the topics presented.  While this logic cannot fully rule out subconscious or deliberate sampling of phrases vital to an agenda, it does show that Smith would have no clear motive for such an action.  Therefore, the voices presented within the dialogue of Twilight are as good as any to represent the mentality that led up and made possible the Rodney King Riots.
    Although the scenes are broken down into lengthy monologues, they are better understood when considered as dialogue between Smith and the interviewee.  One way to think about this is to consider all the epiphanies experienced by Smith while conducting such interviews.  Smith cannot simply explain these epiphanies to us due to the constraints of the play.  Therefore she makes every attempt to best recreate this dialogue casting each audience member as the role of Anna Deavere Smith, showcasing the interviews that would be best suited for bringing about these epiphanies.  Of course, the constraints of the play were assigned by Smith herself, so she must have felt that it would be most effective way of encouraging the audience member to make his or her own decisions about the dialogue spoken.  Since the audience members are actively spoken to and actively coerced into make tough decisions, it is more appropriate to call the long blocks of one person’s story dialogue.  When thought of in this way, one can see that the mentalities exuberated by the interviewees are not far from those of audience members either.
    The mentalities represented in Smith’s play range from hatred to forgiveness.  Yet one mentality stands out strongly throughout all the dialogues: the sense of alienation.  This alienation creates a feeling that there are devils and angels at work in Los Angeles.  Rudy Salas, Sr., at a very young age, “realized [he] had an enemy and that enemy was those nice white teachers” (Smith 2).  He says he does not know why he understood about the white teachers, but that he knew they were his enemy regardless.  It was ingrained in him.  He was Mexican and thus could only truly depend on Mexicans.  He could not trust the police force to protect him in a time of need as he had been too badly mistreated by them in the past.  When a man cannot trust the police, he needs to make efforts to find his own form of security.  Salas reinforces this claim by explaining that he educated his sons to “cooperate… let [the police] call you what they want,” but goes on to say “tell me who they are” (Smith 6).  Salas understood that he would have to protect his sons and his race himself, even if it meant physically fighting his enemy.
    Most astonishing is that Salas or Mexican Americans in general are not alone in feeling alienated by other races.  June Park, whose husband Walter Park was shot by a black man while driving, expresses her doubts about the fairness of her husband’s resulting lobotomy.  She explains that her Korean husband was not only a good man, but specifically donated “a lot of money” to Compton, a predominantly black neighborhood (Smith 147).  Her husband, who was innocent of even crimes of ignorance against blacks, was shot in a traffic dispute presumably based entirely on his race.  Her son explains that the driver actually broke the driver’s side window and shot him “almost execution style” (Smith 149).  Walter Park, despite his lobotomized state, is able to articulate his desire to return to Korea (Smith 143).  He pieces together in broken English an idea that he could change the situation if he were there (Smith 143).  While it is difficult to speculate precisely what situation he means, it would have to be one that could be changed from Korea, so it presumably has nothing to do with race relations in Los Angeles but more likely his loneliness or his wife’s sadness.  Although he has fought the idea of racial separatism, with his frontal lobe (where his “higher learning skills are” according to his stepson, a medical student) removed, he cannot suppress the idea ingrained in him that life might be better if he were surrounded by more Koreans (Smith 146).  While Walter Park does not use language as strong as Salas’, his message is the same: he and his people are what will make him and his family happy and keep them safe.
    Black leaders expressed a similar sense. If things were going to change it was not the government that was going to do it, but the blacks alone.  Former head of the Black Panther Party, Elaine Brown, exposes the foolishness of blacks declaring to war on the United States government (Smith 230).  She does not expose the naivety by explaining that blacks are a part of this government, but solely on the basis that they will lose to the United States Army (Smith 230).  The very idea of blacks declaring a war on the government implies that they do not consider themselves a part of it and that they do not see the US Army as an army that protects them.  They can only rely on each other, their own kind, for safety and justice.  Black Congresswoman Maxine Waters agrees during her speech at the First African Methodist Episcopal Church.  She indicates that journalists and politicians pressured her to tell rioters to “cool it” and then deliberately refuses to make such a statement, instead rationalizing riots as “the voice of the unheard” (Smith 161-62).  She has the same feeling that her race must stick together and claim justice themselves, even if it means literally taking Los Angeles hostage.  The system cannot help them so they must help each other.
    However it is not only the minorities that felt the need to stick together and watch out for their race.  A startling, yet unanimous ruling from the California Court of Appeals allowed the case to be tried in the predominantly white and conservative Semi Valley (Linder).  Furthermore a jury composed of 10 whites and no blacks failed to acquit three of the officers and were unable to reach a verdict on the fourth, despite the prosecution having arguable the best evidence in any civil rights violation case to date, video footage of the brutal beating (Linder).  The jurors and their families were harassed ceaselessly by black rioters after the verdict was announced.  Jurors were alienated by the non-white community.  While these individual cases certainly cannot prove the existence of a separatist mentality in whites, they are useful in reinforcing such a claim.  Even more reinforcing is the general fear of black neighborhoods among whites while the blacks are equally fearful of white cops.  Nonetheless, it seems everyone is afraid of everyone else.
    Los Angeles’ most defining characteristic is clearly the separatist attitude expressed by each racial classification.  It is not only ingrained through past generations and current events but even in the way the city blocks are arranged by ethnic groups.  Everyone involved in the riots directly or indirectly all had one thing in common: They all felt alienated.  Although everyone thought they were alienated, this common ground played no part in bringing these diverse groups of people together.  So it should come as no surprise that this is a city of Angels and Devils, each defined differently by each race.  It should also come as no surprise that its citizens live in fortresses with private security forces and that every attempt is made to live as close to Los Angeles as possible without having to associate oneself as being a citizen of Los Angeles.  Rodney King’s famous words “Can we all just get along?” was not to encourage rioters to get along with rioters, but rather at each race involved.  The answer, as far as L. A. is concerned is yes, but in an unsteady peace with little harmony as long as everyone continues to alienate one another.








Works Cited 
Linder, Douglas O., comp. Los Angeles Police Officers' (Rodney King Beating) Trials. University of Missouri-Kansas Law School. 18 Apr. 2006 <http://www.law.umkc.edu/faculty/projects/ftrials/lapd/lapd.html>.  
Smith, Anna D. Twilight Los Angeles, 1992. New York: Anchor, 1994.  
David Luke Richardson
Writing 140
JJ Strong
April 2, 2006
Extra Credit

On Sunday at 8pm, I attended USC’s performance of Twilight.  All of the monologues were emotionally riveting, but probably the most for me was Bill Bradbury’s story about his black friend being pulled from a car on his way to an internship and his female companion in the car being asked if she was being taken against her will.
I found myself struggling to determine whether I had really enjoyed the director’s choice to associate each actor with characters of different races.  I understand her intent, to show that these problems are universal of all classes and races, but I am just not sure if a white male can ever play a Korean female, just to name an example, without simply portraying a stereotype.  I think it would have been more effective if no attempt at emulating accents or mannerisms had been implemented.  I think it would be a more powerful statement since one could sit and listen to any of the monologues for a few minutes before glancing up at the projector that always displayed the current person’s name and ethnicity and be stunned to find out that these are the words of someone from a different race than you would’ve originally guessed.  
I respect the other choices the director made, though.  I think the jury box set was very clever and the tables and chairs being crafted to look like the LA Skyline while tilted on their sides was a nice touch.  Overall, it was a great experience and it was very informative.  I think it will be a great help in interpreting the text for my final paper.
